# WORKOUT TRACKER
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/SIP3xhc-Zrk
#### Description: A basic web app used for keeping up with a users workouts

MVP:
###### 1. ~~Design workouts.db~~
###### 2. ~~Design layout.html~~
###### 3. ~~Logic for register/login/logout~~
###### 4. ~~Logic for adding new workout~~
###### 5. ~~Logic for updating old workout~~
###### 6. ~~Display workout history~~

During this project, I set out to create a flask app that could be used to track people's workouts. It has been a project I have been wanting to complete for a long time since I had never been able to find a workout tracking app that works well for me. I would usually keep track in a google calendar to save as much info as I could and have it in a recognizable place. With this project, I had big ideas like wanting to make it an app on a computer or phone that could have difficulty ratings for each exercise, comments to note specific problems or pointers to give to oneself, I wanted to have the option to send this to a user's google calender to previously mention reasons, I wanted to make it so that a previous workout could be used as a template for a future workout, I wanted to have lots of stats and graphs available for the user to look through over time and see their progress. 

All this seemed very ambitious for a first coding project. I decided to keep it simple and familiar and with time I could add to this project and turn it into something I would really enjoy using someday. I settled on an MVP that had registration/login/logout capabilities that would display any error messages if they occured on screen. I designed nav buttons that would direct users to the tab that they are looking for (homepage, history, add workout, log out). Each of the nav buttons changes colour once you hover over them so that the user knows what is clickable. For the homepage button, it is the WT written in a black circle. This button redirects the user to the index page and also mimics the icon for the webpage (see in next to title on webpage tab). 

The index page is an area for quick and easy access of certain things. Here, I included the user's 5 most recent workouts and stats so the user can have at least somethings to reflect on throughout their workout journey. In the recent workouts table, the user can see the date, workout name, number of exercises for a given workout, and the overall difficulty of the workout. If the user clicks on the workout name, it will bring the user to that workout and give them the ability to edit the workout as needed. In the stats table, the user can see how many workouts they have tracked on the app, the average number of exercises they do per workout for their 20 most recent workouts, and the most common difficulty the user has experienced in their 20 most recent workouts.

The history page, it is a similar idea to the recent workouts table on the index page, but it shows every single workout the user has completed. The workout names are also clickable for editing purposes.

The add workout page is probably the largest protion of this project. I encountered several design problems that I needed to overcome in order to make it what it functional in the way I wanted. I wanted to have buttons to dynamically add exercises and remove exercises as well as save exercises. First and foremost, the user needed to be able to initialize a workout and they can do exactly that on this page. Once created, the user will see a small form surrounded by a blue border that contains input fields for the workout name, start and end times for a workout, a selection list for the workout difficulty, a section for comments and buttons for saving the workout and adding a new exercise to the list and this would ultimately expand the form I had created. Initially, I had set up the add exercise and remove exercise buttons in JavaScript to increase the value of a counter and that would dynamically display the desired amount of exercises. When it came time to save the information into a database, I noticed that the user would have to choose their desired amount of exercises before inputting into any of the fields this way... I thought that this would be terrible for UX, so I changed the design a bit; I removed the counter entirely and ensured that the display of the exercises was based on the creation of exercises in the database, I had to ensure I brought in every field and an id for the exercise to ensure the specific exercise chosen to be removed was removed. I also needed to save the information so I simply had these buttons submit the form (similar to the save button), but I added some JavaScript to ensure the click of each button had a specific tag that would prevent them from clearing the workout session like the save button does. This worked very well for me. 

The log out page simply clears all the user's sessions so that it returns the user to the login page.

Overall, I spent a bunch of time designing the look of the page and I did this at the same time that I was giving logic to the page. For example, if you add enough exercises to a workout to where you need to scroll, the blue box will stay sticky despite being part of the form and I like that little feature. Highlighting the nav buttons was also small and something I like. Finding the proper spacing and aligning everything was also not as great as I would have liked, but I think it is still presentable. Additionally, I wanted to have a difficulty section for each of the exercises, but the way the reqest.get() function works for my flask app did not leave the data in a way that would have been easy to parse (see app.py comments). I looked into how to change this and writing code for "beautifying" the POST request turned out to be more than I bargainned for, so I just removed the feature. I also tried a couple ways of submitting the add workout form to save progress like having the add/remove exercise buttons submit 2 forms; one for saving and the other for in/decreasing the amount of exercises. That was also a whole can of worms that was more than I bargainned for, so I rethought it to what I currently use. If I had to redo something, it would be the add workout page. I think I could just have text boxes and place things more nicely on the screen if they weren'y bound by the form and I could use JavaScript to collect the data and submit it as a form anyways. Next time, I suppose.

This I would want to add to this are the features for copying a past workout and using it as a template, having graphs be generated for a desired exercise, and having the ability to send this data to google calendar and save it there. Perhaps, in the future.

